---
layout: post
title:  "Version 0.8 is released"
date:   2021-05-28
tags: news
---

Hi, it's me again.
It was a lot of work on this version, and application has definitely become better.
Now it's time to publish a new release!

Reminder: in most cases you could use the latest version from repo and do not wait for release.
The application is stable and contains zero known bugs.
I use "releases" simply as milestones to track work-in-progress.

## New features

* Add "New file" dialog.
  Now it's possible to create new files without quitting from application.
  Yes, it required to reach version 0.8 to implement this, but no one complained before!
* Add support for Python 3.9 (though main working Python version is still 3.8).
* Add experimental [CLI mode][issue65].
  It may be useful in GUI-less environments or when it's impossible to install Qt.
  The CLI tool (`clieben`) uses pure Python only and could be run even without any additional dependency installed.
  In other hand, do not expect it to be feature-rich.
  The tool is quite primitive for now.
  Maybe it will be improved in following versions.
* Toggle views [independently of each other][issue67].
  At last, it's finished!
  This feature required heavy refactoring of the whole application's architecture, but I'm satisfied with the result.
  Architecture has become better, usability has become better.
* `sieben-manage`: add "migrate" command.
  It's useful in cases when you have many sieben files with old versions and do not want to open then one after one to run DB migrations.
  Now you could migrate 'em all with one shell command:
  
```bash
find . -type f -name \*.db | xargs -I{} sieben-manage migrate {}
```

Let's be honest: I suspect this situation is only applicable for my self.
Anyway, it's here.

## Bug fixes

* More consistent behavior in zoom+close scenarios.
  I've discarded an idea that selection should be reset on zooming.
  Instead, selected subgoals are still shown on zoom even they're out of tree.
  Looks like this behavior is less confusing.

## Refactoring

* Improve rendering performance.
  I've found and fixed non-optimal code that caused several repeated searches in goaltree.
  Big trees now render significantly faster.
  Now, the slowest part of rendering lies in the depth of PyQt/Qt.

## Compatibility breaks

* Drop support for Python 3.6.
  I only support small sliding window of Python versions (no more than 3) in order to keep code clean and use latest language features.
  Python 3.9 was added, and Python 3.6 was dropped.
* Old hotkey `v` is removed (now you should use `t` and `o` independently of each other).
  See "Hotkeys" dialog window for the list of actual hotkeys.

## Other improvements

* Move tutorial into [separate file][issue175].
* Restore old ADR and add new ones

## Plans for version 0.9

I plan to add few features that should improve usability on large goal trees:

* Calculate [goal progress][issue177].
* Show [real goal ids][issue176].
* Find/filter goals [by name][issue136].

Also it's very possible that I'd prefer to drop Python3.7 support and start to rely on Python3.8+ syntax.

[issue65]: https://github.com/ahitrin/SiebenApp/issues/65
[issue67]: https://github.com/ahitrin/SiebenApp/issues/67
[issue136]: https://github.com/ahitrin/SiebenApp/issues/136
[issue175]: https://github.com/ahitrin/SiebenApp/issues/175
[issue176]: https://github.com/ahitrin/SiebenApp/issues/176
[issue177]: https://github.com/ahitrin/SiebenApp/issues/177
